have you heard all those people on the
internet telling you that you need to do
more and be more and get more done it's
this idea that if we leave lock down
having not written a novel or learnt a
language that we've somehow failed that
is a toxic Productivity message right
there
[Music]
I'm dr. Judy Smith I'm a psychologist
and I provide daily videos on psychology
mental health and motivation across
social media toxic productivity is this
obsession with radical self-improvement
above all else and the result is that no
matter how productive you are you're
always left with that guilty feeling of
not having done more number one is
working to the extent that it harms your
health or your relationships or your
general well-being
number two is having relentless and
unrealistic expectations for yourself so
that you feel like you're constantly
failing to be enough and number three is
restlessness so when it is time to rest
you find it difficult to relax or
difficult to sleep we also have a wider
cultural problem in our society that
pressure to be constantly available
online on social media means that the
world has an almost constant view into
our lives and that compounds that
pressure to appear a certain way to
family friends or potential employers we
are bombarded with adverts every day
that encourage us to measure our
self-worth based on our productivity if
companies can get you to obsess about
maximizing your productivity then they
can sell you a whole host of products
that you don't need
number one is recognized you're a human
being just like the rest of us and you
are enough as you are today without top
exam results without a flash career
without a new designer outfit you are
enough as you are today
number two is recognize that self-care
is not an indulgence it is essential for
good physical and mental health
sometimes human beings just need to rest
and number three is have some
non-negotiables on your self-care list
certain things that no matter how busy
you get you always do maybe you always
make time for lunch
or maybe you always keep to your
exercise routine do those things and
your mental health will thank you for it
[Music]
ultra productivity and laziness are not
the only options here this is a really
difficult time for lots of people so go
easy on the self-criticism try talking
to yourself with encouragement support
and kindness the way that you would talk
to a friend who is feeling that way this
is not a Productivity contest if we can
find a balance between doing some
meaningful activity and serve care then
we are doing enough
so what is that one thing that you could
do right now to help you feel better
well you could choose joy so you pick
one thing to do for no other reason than
you might enjoy it so when you make your
to-do lists you add on things that you
do just for pleasure when the world
feels overwhelming and you're not sure
what to do or how to feel choose joy